README.md, before:

# Boclips Player

![concourse](https://concourse.devboclips.net/api/v1/teams/main/pipelines/boclips-player/jobs/test/badge)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/boclips-player.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/boclips-player)

The `boclips-player` is a framework agnostic video player which serves to play Boclips supplied videos on all our supported devices.
It features core functionality that is expected of modern video players, such as analytics, closed captions, speed control.

It's purpose is to be integrated into our applications and used by our API partners in their software packages. We want
to provide these partners with a complete player solution that allows us to gain insights to how our consumers watch our videos.

## Usage
Please refer to the [hosted docs](https://docs.boclips.com/docs/player-guide.html) for detailed usage instructions.

The [demos](./demo) may also give an example of how to use the player. 

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License

Copyright (c) 2019, Knowledgemotion Ltd All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Update deault branch to main
[#184106118]

Signed-off-by: Ed Cook <edward@boclips.com>
Signed-off-by: Marcin Janik <marcin@boclips.com>

README.md, after:

# Boclips Player

![concourse](https://concourse.devboclips.net/api/v1/teams/main/pipelines/boclips-player/jobs/test/badge)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/boclips-player.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/boclips-player)

The `boclips-player` is a framework agnostic video player which serves to play Boclips supplied videos on all our supported devices.
It features core functionality that is expected of modern video players, such as analytics, closed captions, speed control.

It's purpose is to be integrated into our applications and used by our API partners in their software packages. We want
to provide these partners with a complete player solution that allows us to gain insights to how our consumers watch our videos.

## Usage
Please refer to the [hosted docs](https://docs.boclips.com/docs/player-guide.html) for detailed usage instructions.

The [demos](./demo) may also give an example of how to use the player. 

## Updates

[04-Jan-2023]: Default branch has been moved from master to main.
You will need update your local copies/forks to start using main as the default branch.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License

Copyright (c) 2019, Knowledgemotion Ltd All rights reserved.
